# SAI (pick the acronym you like)

Do Everything with every Software, Everywhere

## Overview
SAI is a command line that allows you to perfom:
**actions** (many actions) on **every software** (with correct saidata), in different systems (Linux (RedHat, Debian, Suse, Arch, etc.), Windows, macOS, containers, Kubernetes, Nix... ) relying on easy to create **providers** that implement one or more actions.

## Synopsis
```
sai <action> [software] [options]
```

### Parameters
1. **`<action>`**: The operation to perform on the software.
  - Installation actions: `install`, `upgrade`, `uninstall`
  - Management actions: `start`, `stop`, `restart`, `enable`, `disable`
  - Monitoring actions: `status`, `monitor`, `observe`
  - Troubleshooting actions: `log`, `check`, `debug`, `troubleshoot`, `trace`
  - Information actions: `info`, `help`, `ask`
  - Discovery actions: `list`, `search`
  - Maintenance actions: `update`, `upgrade`
  - Configuration actions: `apply`, `manage`, `config`
  - Security actions: `scan`, `sbom` (Software Bill of Materials)

2. **`[software]`**: The name of the software to manage.
   - Examples: `nginx`, `docker`, `opentofu`, `mysql`, `redis` ... every software for which there's sai data
   - Special software: `all` refers to all available software in the system
  
3. **`[options]`** (options): The specific implementation for software actions.
   --provider , -p : Specify the provider to user
   --dry-run , --noop: Run in noop mode without doing changes
   --yes , -y: Assume yes (use defaults) to all prompted questions
   --all , -a: Try to use all available providers (may not apply for all actions)

## Command line usage examples
1. Install an application and manage it:
   ```
   sai install nginx
   sai status nginx
   sai start nginx
   sai stop nginx
   sai enable nginx 
   sai disable nginx 
   ```

2. Check, monitor and troubleshoot:
   ```
   sai check tomcat 
   sai log tomcat 
   sai troubleshoot tomcat 
   sai debug tomcat 
   sai info tomcat 
   sai monitor tomcat 
   sai observe tomcat 
   sai trace tomcat 
   ```

4. Ask information about a software:
   ```
   sai ask terraform 
   sai help terraform 
   sai info terraform 
   sai config terraform 
   sai troubleshoot terraform 
   ```

## As code examples:
All actions can be defined in a sai.yaml file that is applied with  `sia apply`:
```yaml
sai:
  install:
    - vscode
    - git
    - docker
    - docker-compose
    - awscli
    - gcloud
    - azure-cli
    - kubectl
    - helm
    - terraform
```

Find more examples of sai commands as code in the [examples](examples/) directory..

## Features
- [0.2.0] **Cross-Platform Support**: Works seamlessly across Linux, macOS, Windows, and containerized environments.
- [0.2.0] **Error Handling**: Provides meaningful error messages for unsupported actions, software, or providers.
- [0.2.0] **Saidata Support**: Supported software data is defined in extendable easy to manage Yaml files.
- [0.2.0] **Wasm Pluggable providers**: Wasm providers can be added dynamically.
- [1.0.0] **Providers as data**: Providers can be also implkemented via Yaml data.
- [1.0.0] **sai as code**: Implement apply action to perfom all the actions specified in a Yaml file.
- [1.0.0] **AI Generated Software data**: The saidata for supported software is generated by AI using custom fine tuned models
- [1.0.0] **Automatically Tested**: Saidata and implementation is automaticaally tested using a custom test framework
- [x.0.0] **Providers simple**: New providers can be added via just yaml files with the commands to run for supported actions
  
## Getting Started
1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/example42/sai.git
   cd sai
   ```

2. Build the project:
   ```
   go build -o sai
   ```

3. Run the CLI:
   ```
   ./sai <action> [software] [options]
   ```

## Documentation

Check (https://github.com/example42/sai_aidocs)[SAI DOCS] for mostly AI generated docs.

Currently available (first generation mostly close to human plans and intention):
- (https://github.com/example42/sai_aidocs/tree/main/manus/SRS) SRS - Software Requirements Specification
- (https://github.com/example42/sai_aidocs/tree/main/manus/SDD) SDD - Software Desgin Document


## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please submit issues or pull requests to improve SAI.